---
title: More then 200 astronomers Went to Jiangnan to “Go After Total Solar Eclipse” The “Travel of Kua Fu” started from Nanjing Purple Hills Observatory Yesterday
date: 2009-07-19
---

“I have already arrived in Nanjing on July 17, and started the travel of going after total solar eclipse officially. I hope someone can help me to bring me more Baader AstroSolars when he come to Nanjing, for I forgot to buy.” “Wait for us, we will arrive tomorrow. But are you needed to be worry about Baader AstroSolar after you come to Nanjing where there is long history of astronomy?” Which is a paragraph of dialogue on “Bootes” forum which is the largest and earliest astronomy forum in China in the evening of July 17.

In the yesterday afternoon, the two net friends from Guangzhou and Gansu respectively have already arrived at hall of Nanjing Longzhu Hotel. More than 200 astronomers including the two net friends gathered in Jinling to participate in the activity of “travel of going after total solar eclipse in Jiangnan” launched by “Bootes”. 

## Travel of going after total solar eclipse” started from Nanjing

These astronomers appearing at Longzhu Hotel came with large bags, small bags, long and short guns, lots of sweats, excitement...this little known three-star hotel was filled with more than 200 persons, so that the citizens who are dwelt in the vicinity frequently and came to here have dinner in Nanjing were amazed. “I know they come here for observing the total solar eclipse when I see the banner hung on the gate. So far I know what is the “economy of total solar eclipse” which was reported on TV.”

"We only can see partial eclipse, without seeing total eclipse in Nanjing, but we still select this place as the start point of this activity of ‘travel of going after total solar eclipse’.” Xie Renjiang, the founder of Bootes Astronomy Forum, told to the reporter, “In our astronomers’ eyes, Nanjing is a ‘Astronomy City’ with profound astronomy strength and long history of astronomy.” Because of which, the first annual conference of “Bootes” which was founded in Dalian was held in Nanjing in 1999. “Here a lot of astronomy experts gather, we will greatly benefit from communication with them for this activity of ‘going after total solar eclipse’.” The reporter understood that Wang Sichao, the investigator of Nanjing Purple Hills Observatory, et al have been invited to the hotel, for the purpose of having lecture about knowledge of “observation of total solar eclipse” for group members. 

Xie Renjiang showed us that the activity content of “travel of going after total solar eclipse” was very rich. He said: “We can visit Purple Hills Observatory and other astronomy units, then go to Suzhou, Hangzhou and Wuzhen to investigate local observation conditions. But the final observation site is still not determined, it will be needed to be changed according to situation of cloud atlas.” It was said that the group of more than 200 astronomers was still the peer group of the huge “groups of going after total solar eclipse”. “The forum is now receiving the registration of group B with the number of population of more than that of group A. We will gather in Suzhou two days later.” said by Xie Renjiang. Additionally, Xie Renjiang and other persons met a lot of astronomers who went to Suzhou by themselves on the way, including some groups of two persons, and some groups of dozens of persons. “astronomers throughout the world are attracted to gather in one place by total solar eclipse which is like black hole.” said by Xie Renjiang. 

## 76-year-old Ethnic Chinese Old Man Went Abroad to Go After Total Solar Eclipse

Yesterday, one old man with white hair was mostly attractive among more than 200 astronomers. He was Chen Zhiyi of 76 years old from Toronto, one of ethnic Chinese, he was the one with the largest age in the activity of “travel of going after total solar eclipse in Jiangnan”. “I immediately signed up when I saw this activity online. For I have prepared for this time of total solar eclipse from last year.” said by the old man with nonstandard mandarin. 

“I originally came from Macao, I loved astronomy when I was very young. I hoped to come to Purple Hills Observatory to learn astronomy when I took the university entrance examination.” However, unluckily he finally selected chemistry due to opposition from his father. Although he failed to learn astronomy, Chen Zhiyi did not abandon his devotion to astronomy. He studied a lot of astronomy knowledge independently, and what he mostly loves to observe is total solar eclipse. 

“Except from this time, I have already observed total solar eclipse for seven times.” Chen Zhiyi told the reporter, “In 1964, I observed total solar eclipse in Quebec of Canada, which was the first time for me. At that time I studied for the degree of master in Toronto University, when I knew there would be total solar eclipse, I immediately run to observe.”
When he recalled that time of observation of total solar eclipse, the old man was still very excited. “It was too beautiful, I was very moved. Although there was 2 minutes for me to observe total solar eclipse, it was too fantastic. ” And when he observed total solar eclipse in Africa, he found that groups of birds flied to return to nests when the total solar eclipse appeared. “The scene was very strange, I will never forget about it for ever.”

Looking at his wife beside him affectionately, Chen Zhiyi said that it was the only one time for him to observe total solar eclipse lonely in 1964, “and I was accompanied with my wife starting from the second time.” His wife Erna Chen smiled when she heard what his husband said, and told the reporter in English: “because of Chen, I love astronomy more and more presently.”

## The Boy of 5 Years Old Cried due to Worrying about Raining

Xie Renjiang ever told the reporter that the littlest “group member” in his group was only 5 years old. At 7:20 PM, the lecture by Wang Sichao started on time, the conference room at 2/F of Longzhu Hotel was filled with audiences. The reporter saw many children on site as expected. Some of them lied prone on their stomachs on desks, some of them stood on benches, and some of them rode over the shoulders of their fathers, all of them were listened attentively.

The 5-year-old “group member” was named Da You, he was riding over the shoulders of his father Yang Guohui, gazing at the platform carefully. Yang Guohui was the standing owner of “Bootes” forum, he smiled and said that his son signed up successfully through his power, for a lot of net friends failed to sign up. Yang Guohui who acts as CFTA in Beijing told the reporter that his son was greatly interested in astronomy probably due to his influence, what his son usually played was his model airplanes and model stars. “Da You failed to participate in the activity of observing total solar eclipse organized by the forum last year, so I promised him to take him with me this year.” It was said that the little boy started to prepare for this time of travel of observing total solar eclipse several months ago, he said he must observe by himself how the moon which looks like a potato in telescope was eaten by the sun.

“However, what I am mostly worried about is weather. Actually it is not optimistic from the cloud atlas and weather broadcast.” Said by Yang Guohui. He has already told his group members the possible weather before departure. “Everyone understand that, they said that they will be willing to come to observe even if there is a little of hope. So all of them came.”

As the reporter interviewed the old man Chen Zhiyi previously, he said when he talked about weather, “I remember that in 1991 total solar eclipse could not be seen in Germany because of rain. If it has bad weather this time, it will test us probably in the aspects of passion in and insistence on total solar eclipse.” But Da You of 5 years old did not think like that, “When I told him unwittingly that the total solar eclipse would not be seen probably due to rain yesterday, he cried instantly, trapped with unhappiness for one whole night.”

“We ever had a slogan of ‘where there is the solar eclipse, there is the footprints of us’ when we organized to go to Xinjiang. The accurate weather will be known in July 20. If the result is not good, we will go to another place to observe solar eclipse. The terminal of this time of ‘travel of going after total solar eclipse in Jiangnan’ will be determined at that time.”