---
title: Shenzhou” Drew A Beautiful Straightline in the Night Sky of Dalian
---

Dalian Daily (Reporter: Liu Yun) At 06:23 of Oct. 16, 2003, “Shenzhou” V spaceship flied in the outer space for 21 hours, later its returning capsule landed at the main landing field of Siziwang Banner of Inner Mongolia in safety. So far, the first manned spaceflight of China successfully ended. The very 21 hours would be recorded in the spaceflight history of human, and the very 21 hours collected expectation of Chinese. Subsequently, a lot of people look into the sky to seek the “Shenzhou” V spaceship. Very fortunately, the “Shenzhou” V spaceship was seen by the two astronomers in our city: “Shenzhou” V spaceship appeared in the night sky of Dalian from 04:35:37 to 04:39:49 of Oct. 16, more than one hour before it landed in safety, it drew a beautiful straightline in the night sky of Dalian. 

The two astronomers who were fortunate to see “Shenzhou” V spaceship flying in the night sky of Dalian were named Xie Renjiang and Zhang Limin. Xie was only more than 20 years old at than time, but he has already had experience of more than 10 years in astronomy observation, he has founded Boote Astronomy website, and he has become the foreign member of Royal Astronomical Society. Zhang Limin worked for China CEFC Computer Technology Co., Ltd., he always observed the sky together with Xie Renjiang. It was said by Xie Renjiang that he understood that “Shenzhou” V spaceship probably flied over the night sky of Dalian in the afternoon of Oct. 15. After precise measurement and computation, they determined the time and position of “Shouzhou” V spaceship which arrived in the night sky of Dalian.

Before dawn of Oct. 16, Xie Renjiang and Zhang Limin searched in the night sky in the vicinity of Xie Renjiang’s residence without fear of night cold of late autumn. At that time, the night sky of Dalian was very clear, and “Shenzhou” V spaceship accurately appeared in the night sky of North Dalian at 04:35:37 as calculated, it could be seen by naked eyes. At that time, “Shenzhou” V spaceship arrived in the vicinity of Ursa Major, with luminance of second degree,  relatively bright, close to the luminance of Polaris, with color of saffron yellow in the night sky. The main reason why “Shenzhou” V spaceship was relatively bright in the night sky is that the sailboard of solar cells of the spaceship can reflect the sunlight. It was measured that the nearest distance between “Shenzhou” V spaceship and Dalian was only 390 km. While Zhang Limin seized the valuable 8 seconds within which “Shenzhou” V spaceship was nearest to Dalian and kept the bright and valiant look of “Shenzhou” V spaceship by digital camera (see the picture). After it flied for more than 4 minutes northeastward in the night sky of Dalian, it slowly disappeared on the horizon. 

Xie Renjiang told the reporter in excitement he as an astronomer ever saw many artificial objects including ISS, iridium satellite through naked eyes and astronomical telescope, but he felt mostly excited with pride when he saw “Shenzhou” V spaceship in the night sky, because it is our own manned spaceship. Even one Doctor from Harvard University expressed his congratulation on success in launching “Shenzhou” V spaceship by sending E-mail to Xie Renjiang. The American Doctor wrote unfeignedly to welcome China to join the countries of manned spacecrafts. 

The beautiful straightline remained by “Shenzhou” V spaceship in the night sky of Dalian will be kept in the mind of people of Dalian.
